[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: In my last
conversation with Len Kasten,
we covered some of the
political and military times
of the 1960s surrounding
a secret mission
to send human beings to
a distant planet as part
of an exchange program.
In this talk, Len
discusses the mission
itself, and what the
exchange was about.
They gave us technology.
I don't know what we gave
them, but we will find out.
Maybe just friendship?
That's kind of what we came
to in the last conversation.
But there are some
nuances that were
concerning for the
crew surrounding this,
so it's fair to ask.
So first of all, before we get
on the planet Serpo itself,
let's talk about the setting
up of the people to go to it.
We talked about it a
little bit last time.
Now December 1963, Los
Alamos received a message
from the Ebens about
their landing on Earth.
This was just weeks after
Kennedy's death as I recall.
Was it just after or just
before Kennedy's death?
>>LEN KASTEN: No, the exchange
program was set up in the '50s.
>>REGINA: Yes, but I'm talking
about that communication
in the '60s that came through.
>>KASTEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: To start setting
up the notion of a landing
and how we're going to
do this thing together.
>>KASTEN: That was when
Kennedy came into office.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's talk
about that a little bit
and how that worked out.
>>KASTEN: Yes.
Kennedy was briefed
on it by the CIA,
in the early '60s,
when he took over.
And then he approved
it, naturally.
He wanted a space triumph,
desperately, after Sputnik.
And had already
asked von Braun when
we could send somebody to the
moon and something on the moon.
And Lyndon Johnson
was brought in on it
because Kennedy had made
him the space council.
>>REGINA: After Kennedy's
death, he was brought in.
>>KASTEN: No.
Kennedy had appointed him as
head of the space council.
>>REGINA: But he didn't
know about the project yet.
>>KASTEN: He did not
know about the project.
>>REGINA: Right.
So there we are.
And now, April 24,
1964, so Kennedy's gone,
now Johnson is in command.
Two craft landed near Sirocco.
Let's start there.
What happened after that?
>>KASTEN: No, the
first craft-- they
sent two craft into our
atmosphere, April 24th, 1964.
One of them, the first one
went to the wrong place.
It landed outside of
Corona-- was it Corona?
I believe it was
Corona, New Mexico.
It was about 100 miles away
from where it was headed.
>>REGINA: Slightly
off target, yeah.
>>KASTEN: And do
you know anything
about the Lonnie Zamora case?
>>REGINA: No.
>>KASTEN: Do you know that a
New Mexico policeman was called
to an emergency call
because an alien craft had
landed near Corona, New Mexico.
His name was patrolman
Lonnie Zamora.
>>REGINA: Oh, it's coming back.
I've read bits about it.
Yes, go ahead.
>>KASTEN: And the date
was April 24, 1964.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KASTEN: That was
the alien craft
that missed the landing place.
And what he encountered
was the two aliens,
standing outside the
craft, which he said
was egg-shaped and
very large, very large.
And then when they saw him,
they scrambled, and got back in,
and took off.
That was the one was supposed to
have landed at the Holloman Air
Force Base and missed it.
But then we sent a
message to that craft.
They eventually found
the right place.
But see how that Zamora
incident ties in with Serpo.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
So once the contact was
made, now this is 1964.
Tell us about some
of the prep and how
they were kind of managing the
logistics for this operation.
>>KASTEN: Oh, in terms
of training the--?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KASTEN: They put an ad in
many military journals asking
for volunteers.
They didn't tell them
anything about it,
just that it was a
dangerous mission.
And they got 600 replies.
And they eventually
narrowed it down to 16.
>>REGINA: And these guys.
>>KASTEN: And there were two
women in the original cut.
>>REGINA: But not
in the final 12.
>>KASTEN: Not in the final.
>>REGINA: There was some
misunderstanding about that.
>>KASTEN: Right, not
in the final cut.
>>REGINA: OK.
And now they were taken to the
hospitable quarters of Fort
Leavenworth prison, right?
>>KASTEN: Well, no.
[LAUGHTER]
No, not yet.
Not yet.
They didn't get into prison yet.
But the security
was so fanatical
and so compartmentalised,
that the DIA didn't
want to risk-- who was in
charge of the program--
any possibility of it
leaking out to the point
where they didn't want
people with families,
they didn't want
people with children.
They wanted them to be
orphans, themselves.
>>REGINA: Well, it makes
sense once you understand
what the actual mission
was, that you would not
want them to have any people
waiting around for them.
>>KASTEN: Exactly.
Or who might release an
article to the newspaper.
>>REGINA: Sure, absolutely.
>>KASTEN: A mother, a father,
whatever, who was concerned,
you know.
And these men were
going to be gone
for 10 years, don't forget.
So they were concerned.
And so they select
them very carefully.
A guy from MI6 in England
was in part of his program.
And he sent in a
letter to the website
saying that they had
trouble filling all the 12
positions with the
right categories--
physician, scientist.
They had to actually go out
and recruit a couple of them.
They couldn't find them all
within the military community.
They did have to go out
and recruit some of them.
>>REGINA: So they
have their final 16.
And how were they trained?
How does one train for
going into outer space
and then living on
a foreign planet
that really we have
no knowledge of?
>>KASTEN: We already
had NASA at that point.
They were supposedly
in charge of anything
to do with outer space.
But they were not involved
in this program at all.
They did get involved
in the training.
>>REGINA: So did they
have standard training
that astronauts would have?
>>KASTEN: No.
No.
>>REGINA: Then what
kind of training?
>>KASTEN: These men were
not trained as astronauts.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about what
their actual training was like.
>>KASTEN: They were
given-- in my book,
I have a complete curriculum
of their training.
The subject matter was
very wide, everything,
everything you could
you think of, astronomy.
Everything that they thought
they might need to know
was covered.
And many of the people that
trained did come forward later
and send in anonymous
submissions to the website.
And that really helped to
flesh out the information
on the Serpo website.
But they were sent to
Fort Peary, Virginia,
which was the CIA training
facility, commonly
known as the Farm.
You see it referred to as
the Farm in many movies.
I think that they
call them farm boys,
at one point, if they
were from the CIA.
In any case, they had their
own facility within the Farm.
And so they were in a separate,
even more secure location.
And that's where they
were trained, mainly.
But they were also sent
to foreign countries
for training-- Chile, Mexico.
And they were sent to Tyndall
Air Force Base, in Florida,
for the high altitude training.
So they got a very wide
kind of training for this.
>>REGINA: But what
was the training
like for their physical
bodies in terms
of being able to respond
to the environment they
would be living in?
Were the Ebens giving
enough information
that they could even
prepare their bodies
for such a journey?
>>KASTEN: We know they had
the right kind of atmosphere.
We knew they had carbon,
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen,
just like we do.
We knew that already.
Don't forget, we had
been dealing with them
for nine years prior
to Kennedy's advent.
So we knew a lot.
We had volumes of information
about their planet
that they had already given us.
They did send the four
aliens with the craft
to help us develop--
back-engineer the craft.
So presumably, we knew
a lot about them even,
though we couldn't communicate
fluently with them.
>>REGINA: And yet
ignorance is bliss,
because things didn't
exactly go as planned
once they got on board.
There were lots of surprises.
Let's talk about--
OK, the movie.
We brought it up last
time, "Close Encounters
of the Third Kind."
Now, where does that
fit in with Serpo?
Where are the overlapping
kind of images?
>>KASTEN: Well
Spielberg presented
the take-off-- the final
take-off from in his case,
from the mountain there,
the Devil's Tower,
whereas really, they departed
from the Nevada test site.
What happened was the first
landing, as we discussed,
April 24, 1964,
they decided they
didn't want to take the 12
people with them at that time.
We greeted them with a
greeting party of 16 officials
from the government.
I don't believe that President
Johnson was among them.
The 16 people have
not been identified,
but they were high officials
in the military intelligence
community.
And probably MJ12, that's
my guess, I'm sure.
And I think possibly
Anonymous was one of them.
In any case, they presented
us with two gifts.
One was an automatic translator
that we could type into,
and we could see
their language on it.
And they could see our language.
And they could
communicate that way.
They brought those with them.
They also presented
us with a gift
to the people of Earth
called the Yellow Book.
The Yellow Book was an
amazing piece of technology.
It wasn't really a book.
It looked like a book.
But really, as you opened
it, images sprang out of it,
holographic images of
what you were looking at,
giving you pictures that were
of historical significance going
back to 2000 BC.
>>REGINA: I loved the
description of this.
And this particular
piece of technology,
does it exist today?
Does the military still have?
>>KASTEN: Yes, they
have it, of course.
>>REGINA: And does is show
into the future as well or only
the past?
>>KASTEN: As far as I know,
it just discussed the past.
But the remarkable
thing about the book
was that, when you
held it close to you,
it picked up the language
that was in your aura
and communicated with
you in that language.
And it supposedly had
80 different languages
encoded into it.
So if you thought
in terms of English,
you would read English.
>>REGINA: That's
a beautiful gift.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, it's amazing.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now, at what
point-- now 1964,
they decided not to take
them with them at this time.
>>KASTEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: So then what happened?
>>KASTEN: They took the 10,
they took the 11 bodies of Ebens
that had died here.
There were six in
the second crash.
The Roswell crash was actually
a collision between two
of their craft.
They were both identical
in terms of the same race.
When Reagan was
briefed on it, they
told him that they were the same
exact race from both crashes.
One crashed near
Datil, New Mexico,
and the other one crashed
outside of Sicorro.
And that was the
one we recovered.
And there were six on
the one from Datil.
There were four dead aliens
at Sicorro and one live one.
So they took back a total
of 11 bodies with them
on that landing of April.
>>REGINA: And were
they stored in the way
that Corso mentioned,
where they were
suspended in some kind of fluid
to keep them from degenerating?
>>KASTEN: Yes.
At that time, Los Alamos had
developed a cryogenic facility
to preserve bodies indefinitely.
That was involved with cooling,
I guess, super cooling.
I'm not sure what.
But we had also autopsied
several of them.
>>REGINA: So the film, "Alien
Autopsy," the most well-known
film, called "Alien Autopsy?"
>>KASTEN: The
"Alien Autopsy" film
was based on the crash that
occurred before Roswell.
Those aliens were different.
They had six fingers and toes.
They look more human
than the Ebens did.
In fact, one of them, if
you remember the video,
had a big gash in his leg.
And they looked
like smaller humans.
>>REGINA: They did.
What was the source
of those beings?
>>KASTEN: We don't know
where they were from.
But the editor of
"Shutterbug" magazine
said that he was there,
and he photographed them.
>>REGINA: So that's
real, because, of course,
the media has poo-pooed this.
It's been.
>>KASTEN: The autopsy?
Yes, that autopsy film
was the real thing.
And I think that the guy
that briefed President Reagan
said that.
He verified that.
He validated that.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
So they've taken their
bodies back with them.
And what is the plan to
return and pick up the humans?
>>KASTEN: They said they
would come back in a year.
>>REGINA: And what
happened to this crew?
They'd been trained already.
>>KASTEN: It was an enormous
logistics problem for us
because we have 40
tons of equipment,
sitting there, waiting to be
loaded onto the alien craft,
including three
jeeps, 10 motorcycles,
an incredible amount of stuff.
And all that had to
be warehoused now.
And 12 Americans were
sitting in a bus, waiting.
And they were told
they had to go back
to Fort Leavenworth,
Kansas, which was a prison
and wait there so they wouldn't
be able to contact anybody.
And we treated them like
prisoners, basically.
>>REGINA: How disappointing
that must've been.
And as we said in our
last conversation,
it wasn't as though
you could say,
hey, I'm out because
then you could stay there
an additional 10 years
as the price you would
pay for abandoning the mission.
>>KASTEN: Exactly.
And one of the
Americans did want
to get out of it after he
found out what was happening.
And they said, if
we release you,
you're going to have spend 10
years in Leavenworth prison.
He said, all right, I'll go.
>>REGINA: Twist your arm.
So the ships finally did come.
And let's talk about the ships,
what happened when they landed,
the crew, and then
just going on board,
to kind of getting comfortable.
>>KASTEN: Right.
And what was amazing about
that, when the ship finally
arrived, in July, I think
it was 16th of 1965,
this one landed at the Nevada
test site, not at Holloman.
The first one was at Holloman.
It was actually on the border
of Holloman and White Sands
proving ground.
The second one came directly
to the Nevada test site,
which is right near Area 51.
They wanted to be near Area 51.
At that time, Area 51 did exist.
That one landed there.
And much like in the
movie, "Close Encounters,"
the 12 men were taken
on board at that point.
And what was amazing about
that was that the craft was
large enough to
take the 40 tons,
the shuttlecraft that
landed was large enough
to take the 40
tons of equipment.
But they took it
all in one move.
So evidently, they had
anti-gravity technology.
>>REGINA: Apparently, yeah.
>>KASTEN: In fact,
they were able--
it was all on one platform,
all of it, the three jeeps--
>>REGINA: Yes,
that was shocking.
>>KASTEN: --the 10 motorbikes.
>>REGINA: And all their
food and supplies.
>>KASTEN: And the food
and everything, yes.
It all went on in
one smooth move.
>>REGINA: So their
cargo is on board.
The people are on board.
What was the first experience?
In terms of the
chain of command,
who were the beings
that greeted them,
and what was that
experience like for them?
>>KASTEN: Yes, well,
of course, they still
couldn't communicate
language-wise.
But they did have somebody
designated as a communicator.
>>REGINA: The female, right?
>>KASTEN: A female
they call EBE-2.
She spoke English pretty well.
Evidently her vocal cords
were OK to speak the language.
And we found out that they
had certain people on Serpo
that could also speak English.
But they were mainly
doctors and people who
were in the educated bracket.
>>REGINA: And this
female really was
to remain their very close ally
and companion, more than just
a translator.
It seemed, the way
she was depicted was
she was quite
compassionate and--
>>KASTEN: She was.
>>REGINA: --open with them.
>>KASTEN: The commander
was very taken with her.
He was very pleased that she was
so compassionate and so caring.
She was like a combination
hostess, translator, guide,
all those things
wrapped into one.
And she was the one that
had translated that portion
of the Yellow Book to English.
She was the one that did that.
So--
>>REGINA: So Eben 2?
>>KASTEN: Eben 2.
And the 12 men got on
board the shuttlecraft.
And they were taken, and
they were put in bubbles.
Well, that portion of the trip,
they weren't in the bubbles
yet.
>>REGINA: Mm-mm.
>>KASTEN: They were
taken to the mothership
in the shuttlecraft, which
was very large in itself,
by the way.
And that was the one that had
landed at Zamora incident.
And if you look at
paintings of that incident,
that craft doesn't appear
to be especially large.
But it was large enough to
take the 40 tons of equipment
with it plus the 12 men.
>>REGINA: I have a book
with that painting.
I'll have to go check
it out again now,
in light of this, yes.
>>KASTEN: It's an
egg-shaped thing sitting.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KASTEN: But when they
got to the mothership,
they were astounded because the
commander said, in his diary,
that he was standing in a
room with a ceiling that
was about 100 feet high.
It was huge.
The mothership was huge.
>>REGINA: And so they were
told from the beginning
that they had access to wander
the ship, to go where they?
>>KASTEN: Not at that point.
>>REGINA: That was later?
>>KASTEN: Initially, they were
put in individual little--
>>REGINA: Yeah, the little pods.
>>KASTEN: --bubbles--
>>REGINA: Bubbles, yeah.
>>KASTEN: --that were
attached to the floor,
to electronics in the floor,
so they could be monitored.
And if they stepped outside of
those bubbles, they got sick.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
what I was going to get to.
Also, they were saying that
the sound of the Eben's voice
would make some of them nauseous
and even dizzy, the tones
that we're coming out them.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, they
said it was screeching,
like screeching sounds.
It was very weird.
And they said it sounded
like high-pitched singing is
what the commander
said in his diary.
And so they were kept in those
bubbles during the take-off.
And if they went outside
of it, they did get sick.
For the whole first
half of the journey,
they were mainly
in those bubbles.
And they lost all track of time.
They didn't have their
backpacks with them.
All their equipment was in
another part of the ship.
The commander was
frustrated by the fact
that he couldn't get
to those backpacks
because he wanted
to look at them.
But they had to just
do with what they had.
>>REGINA: And they were given
food that was from the Ebens
as well, not just
their own food.
They did run out at
one point, right?
This was a 10 month journey.
>>KASTEN: No, the
c-rations, they lasted.
>>REGINA: Did they
last the whole time?
>>KASTEN: They lasted
the whole time.
>>REGINA: But they were
eating Eben food, too.
>>KASTEN: But they were
trying to eat the Eben food.
They said it tasted like paper.
>>REGINA: But it
also had an effect
of-- it seemed like
a healing effect
when things started going
wrong in their bodies.
Some of these foods started
balancing them out again,
whatever they were.
>>KASTEN: Well, no.
What helped, what
healed and helped them
with the illness was one of
the Ebens would pass a blue--
>>REGINA: Yeah, I remember that.
>>KASTEN: --a blue
light over them,
and then they got much
better after that.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
light technology.
>>KASTEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And now,
these guys were
traveling for 10 months,
39 lightyears away,
which would have been
as I think you said,
40 times the speed of light.
>>KASTEN: That's right.
>>REGINA: So the
implication there
is they were transiting through
what we would call wormholes.
>>KASTEN: Wormholes.
>>REGINA: So there was a
time/space effect going on
here.
>>KASTEN: Yes, yes.
They found out later they also
had antimatter technology.
But the antimatter
technology was
not what they used to traveled
through the wormholes.
Travel through a wormhole
is instantaneous.
It would have to
be for them to have
covered that vast distance.
>>REGINA: Collapse the
time to that extent, yeah.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, 10 months.
Once they got to
the midway point--
when one of the commanders--
one of the Ebens
told them they were
at the halfway point,
they allowed them to
walk around the ship
freely and ask questions, do
anything they wanted to do.
>>REGINA: Once they
were acclimated?
>>KASTEN: Yeah.
And I think the only
times they really got sick
is when they were going
through the wormholes.
>>REGINA: That's what I
was just going to ask next.
The team commander
wrote, we will all
feel better when
the craft gets out
of this time-wave is
how they understood it.
>>KASTEN: He knew even
then it was time-wave, yes.
>>REGINA: And then
they would go,
whenever they needed to, back
into these bowls of protection.
But then time, the
whole notion of time.
Now he was there to
chronicle their travels.
But he began-- you could
see in the diary, he said,
I don't know when the
last time I wrote was.
They were all beginning
to lose track of time.
Because-- was time
passing, at this point,
very differently for them then?
>>KASTEN: Yeah,
subjectively speaking,
I think he was not
experiencing time
the way we would
experience time.
And he looked at his watch,
and it said so-and-so.
And he thought, well,
maybe one day has passed,
but he didn't know.
It might have been three days.
>>REGINA: Well
this apparently was
part of the problem in
the timing of the mission.
They ended up overstaying their
original plan by a few years,
because, I guess, they
lost track of time.
>>KASTEN: They
They brought with them
timepieces on batteries.
And the batteries ran out.
They tried coordinating with
the Eben orbit of 43 days
around their sun, whereas
ours was-- I mean, sorry,
43 hours, whereas we
were on a 24 hour day.
They had to make
those computations.
It got complicated.
>>REGINA: Ah, just to to
hell with it. [LAUGHS]
>>KASTEN: I think,
to hell with it.
>>REGINA: I think it
was a day or two ago.
>>KASTEN: We'll
just use Eben time.
Just use Eben time, that's
what they decided to do.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
which is interesting.
We don't stop and think about.
Obviously, they didn't either.
They didn't know what to expect.
So one of them was
in the engine room.
Let's talk about
what the engine room
was described as on the craft.
>>KASTEN: They saw these pipes
leading to a central location.
And they saw like
an energy source
coming down to that
central location.
And they realized that
there was no sound.
So whatever it
was, was energetic.
They didn't understand
how it worked.
But they did know they
also were using antimatter.
And Bob Lazar did mention that.
Have you talked to Bob Lazar?
>>REGINA: No, I have not.
>>KASTEN: He mentioned that the
aliens had an element called
"Element 115."
>>REGINA: Yes, heavier
than our-- yeah.
>>KASTEN: Not native
to our planet.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KASTEN: And that's
what they used
for the antimatter part of it.
So they did use that also.
So I think Lazar was validated
when it comes to that.
>>REGINA: What about
sounds or tones
and such going on
inside the craft?
Was it noiseless,
or were there tones?
>>KASTEN: From what I
remember, the commander
didn't discuss that.
>>REGINA: Because I don't
remember him talking about it
either.
>>KASTEN: No, he
didn't talk about that.
>>REGINA: This is where
it gets kind of sticky.
One of the team members
died on the journey.
Let's talk about that.
Let's talk about
the whole thing.
What happened on the Eben end?
He said, she said,
you know, what
happened on the
side of the crew,
and what was created
as a result of that?
I mean it was a
bit of an incident.
>>KASTEN: It was an incident.
They were all given three digit
numbers as new identities.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KASTEN: This one was
number 308 was his identity.
He was actually
one of the pilots.
They had two
pilots, a commander,
an assistant commander, two
scientists, two doctors,
et cetera.
They had it all worked out.
This one was the
pilot, number 308.
Supposedly, the
commander discovered
that he was dead only because
his bubble was unoccupied
when he walked around.
He didn't see anybody in there.
He said he only
counted 11 people.
And finally, they told
him that he had died.
It turned out to be
a pulmonary embolism.
And so 308 was dead.
But where was the body?
He wasn't told
where the body was.
And he didn't inquire
further at that point
because he assumed that the body
was in a temporary location.
>>REGINA: A holding
area somewhere.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, it
would be turned over
to them when they got to Serpo.
But that never happened.
>>REGINA: Well, they found
out the body had actually been
autopsied and closely examined.
>>KASTEN: After a
while, the commander
asked again when they got
there, where is 308's body?
The commander said, it
doesn't exist anymore.
I mean, the Ebens said,
it doesn't exist anymore.
They said, we were honored to
have it to use for experiments.
And we have used it to clone
another type of creature,
that's part alien, part human.
>>REGINA: See, now that's
what I was talking to you
about off camera a little bit.
I was wondering what was in
it for-- you said, basically,
friendship-- what was
in it for the Ebens?
There was this hybridized being.
There were others as well.
But do you not
feel that that was
part of what the deal was,
was to be able to take some
of our genetics and maybe
create a new type of species,
a hybridized species?
>>KASTEN: Yeah, it was.
Because they were not-- they did
not abduct, unlike the Greys.
They never abducted.
>>REGINA: So they
both might have
had the same idea in mind, to
use human DNA to strengthen
or for their own hybridization
purposes with their species.
But it was done in a more
conscious way, you're saying.
>>KASTEN: Right.
And Corso did say that
there were human body
parts on the crashed craft.
So Corso validated that.
And we found out that
they did have human body
parts on the craft that
crashed at Roswell.
>>REGINA: Well,
that's interesting.
Now, why would they
have human body parts?
Might it have been kind
of the reverse situation,
where they had humans on board
and perhaps someone had died?
Why were the incoming
ones with body parts?
>>KASTEN: They
obviously, wherever
they travel throughout the
galaxy, that's what they did.
They took parts back
with them for the DNA.
But that doesn't mean
they killed them.
>>REGINA: No, I understand that.
And it is a
significant difference
between abducting,
against someone's will,
utilizing their DNA.
Although, that's
highly nuanced, too.
The memories-- John Mack's
work, what came out of that,
it was just so convoluted in
a sense, where people would
end up ether kind of in awe.
I don't know if it was
Stockholm Syndrome or what.
But that had its own story,
the abductees' stories.
But this is just basically
more opportunistic.
If a body dies, then
let's not waste.
Waste not, want not, right?
And take the pieces, and
do what you can with them.
>>KASTEN: Think about
all the battlefields.
Oh, they had the choice of
many, many, many thousands
of dead soldiers.
So they could take
them from there.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about-- they did,
ultimately, a couple of them,
I think one of the doctors
if I recall, came
across a laboratory
where they had these
various growing
entities in these containers
again in fluid and such.
Can you explain
what that was like?
>>KASTEN: When
they got to Serpo,
the commander insisted on
seeing the body of 308.
And they told him again that
the body no longer exists.
He said, what do you mean?
They said, we were honored
to be able to have the body
to use it for experiments.
He said, what do you mean?
That body belongs
to the planet Earth,
United States of America.
And we honor our dead.
And they said, well, I'm
sorry, it no longer exists.
He said, I want to see what
you have left of that body.
>>REGINA: But there were
some emotionally tense times
during this.
I think there was a
drawing of weapons.
Like what good's
that going to do.
>>KASTEN: There was
a confrontation.
There was a confrontation,
and the security man
on the team, number 899,
went to get the guns.
He said, I'm going to get
the guns and explosives.
Well, get the guns.
And EBE-2 said, please no guns.
And she put her hand on
the commander's chest
and said, please.
And she begged him.
She said, please many times.
He said, well, I want to know
what happened to 308's body.
She said, I will get the doctor
in charge and bring him here.
And the commander was
astounded that the doctor
spoke perfect English.
He said, where has this
guy been all this time?
Where was he when we needed him?
>>REGINA: When they
were struggling.
>>KASTEN: Yes.
And so the doctor
explained to him
that they used most of
the parts of the body
for creating other creatures.
And the commander said, I'd
like to see what you've got.
And they took them into
this biotechnology building.
And the case that supposedly
held 308's body was sealed
shut.
So the commander said,
go get the explosives.
I want to blow it
up, blow it open.
And once again,
she stopped that.
And they said, look, the
body no longer exists.
It's been used.
The commander said,
I'd like to see where
you do all this biotechnology.
They took them
into that building.
And the commander
walked down rows
of creatures that were, he
said, hideous, part animal, part
human, part everything, kept
in some sort of suspended
animation, like a
gel of some sort.
And he was revolted.
And he said, well, let
me see the creature
you've created with 308's body.
And they took him
into another room.
And there he saw
creatures that were part--
the one that was used for
308 had large hands and feet,
but it didn't look at all human.
He was so revolted that he
wrote in his diary; he said,
I have seen the dark side
of this civilization.
He thought it was evil.
To him, it was evil.
We didn't have enough
experience with DNA technology
at that point, even the doctors,
to know what they were doing.
To them, it was just science.
That's all it was.
It was simply science.
Here they were, traveling
throughout the galaxy,
bringing these creatures
back to their planet
for experimentation.
And to him, it was
evil at that point.
>>REGINA: Well if you saw what
was left of your comrade, which
was unrecognizable.
And the thing that was
also recognized by him
is that these bodies
grew incredibly fast.
>>KASTEN: Fast, that's correct.
>>REGINA: So that would bring
me to kind of a segue question
about the Ebens themselves.
Were they cloning
their own species
as part of the population?
And also, what was their
process of reproduction?
>>KASTEN: Our people
did snoop around.
They were asked not to.
But they did snoop around and
find out how they reproduced.
They looked in on some of
the huts that they lived in.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and?
>>KASTEN: And said that it
was very much like ours.
But it was, you know,
kind of different too.
They were only allowed to have
two children, each family.
And they lived in
very simple Spartan--
>>REGINA: Yeah, kind
of rounded domes.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, exactly.
Very unadorned and without
a lot of technology.
And they didn't have television
or anything like that,
no central facility for that.
And they found out that they did
have sex, as we understand it.
But their physiology was
very different from ours.
>>REGINA: Tell us.
>>KASTEN: And the CIA man
that briefed President Reagan
mentioned that.
It's in the book.
He said their blood system
was totally different.
Their skin was different.
But they did not
look like the Greys.
These were not the Greys.
>>REGINA: Tell us the
differentiating factors.
>>KASTEN: These are
smaller in stature.
They're about four feet,
four and a half feet.
But they had sort of
a brown complexion.
>>REGINA: Rather than grey.
>>KASTEN: Right.
And in fact, the
alien body that's
on display at the museum
in Roswell under the case,
have you seen that?
>>REGINA: I have never been.
Should I go?
>>KASTEN: Yeah, you should
go to the museum there.
Yeah, absolutely.
That body was provided by Paul
Davids, a Hollywood producer.
But it actually was very close
to what they looked like.
They had large skulls.
The skulls were larger.
But they had a
brownish complexion.
My understanding was they also
had five digits on their hands
and toes.
And they had large eyes,
but not like the Greys.
>>REGINA: Large almond eyes.
>>KASTEN: Not the
wrap-around eyes.
But they did have large eyes.
And they had a special kind of--
two eyelids, I think he said,
a small nose, and a small mouth.
Do you know Cynthia Crawford?
She does little
sculptures of aliens.
>>REGINA: No.
>>KASTEN: And she gets this
information psychically.
She has produced a
sculpture of the Ebens.
>>REGINA: Cynthia
Crawford's work?
OK.
>>KASTEN: I should've brought
mine with me, and I didn't.
>>REGINA: Oh, I would
loved to have seen it.
>>KASTEN: Yes.
They were kind of
impish looking humans.
And they were brownish.
They didn't look anything at
all like the Greys though.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Now, let's talk
about how they lived.
Because I think most
people want to know.
They want to have a glimpse
of a life from another planet.
So let's talk about
food supplies.
Let's talk about what
the environment was like.
They had two suns, for example.
>>KASTEN: Two suns in the
sky, so it never got dark.
They had a twilight.
The Americans had
a difficult time
getting used to that, that
fact that it never got dark.
And they had to
accumulate-- they
had to plan their
days, accordingly,
to have eight or
nine hours of rest
even though it
was light outside.
And they worked that out.
I think the planet
revolved around one
of the suns, the larger one.
The other one was
off in the distance.
And it was there all the time.
So that was why
it was never dark.
>>REGINA: Right and
when you go to twilight,
it was depending on the
rotation of the other sun,
around the other sun.
>>KASTEN: And it's been
debatable whether or not
the two suns actually
revolved around each other.
>>REGINA: We're kind
of in a binary pattern.
>>KASTEN: But my understanding
was they were not.
>>REGINA: They were not?
>>KASTEN: They were not.
>>REGINA: So what was
the landscape like?
What were the temperatures
like and so forth?
>>KASTEN: When the doors
opened and they walked out
onto the planet, the first
reaction of the commander
was, god, what a planet.
It was just like, he said,
New Mexico or Arizona,
sparse desert.
Dirt, what it was, basically.
And the heat was overwhelming.
It was about 100-- I think
they figured about 140 degrees,
something like that.
>>REGINA: How did these
guys contend with that?
>>KASTEN: They took them
into an underground place
that was cooler.
And that's where they stayed.
That's where they put all the
equipment, under the ground.
And so they could
tolerate it that way.
>>REGINA: And was it always
that temperature then?
That was a constant?
>>KASTEN: That was the
equatorial region, yes.
>>REGINA: Now that
wasn't the only region.
There was another
region on the planet.
Let's talk about the north.
>>KASTEN: But the Ebens
preferred that climate.
>>REGINA: The warm one?
>>KASTEN: They preferred
to live on the-- yes,
they liked the heat.
They liked the heat.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
the other environment.
>>KASTEN: Well
after a while, when
they started to
explore the planet,
they found that the northern
quadrant was very, very
reasonably-- the
temperatures were fine.
They were much better.
>>REGINA: Trees?
>>KASTEN: Trees.
>>REGINA: Verdant.
>>KASTEN: Water.
Mountains.
They said it looked
like Montana.
And they named it Little
Montana, Little Montana.
And they loved it up there.
I mean, people
loved it up there.
But they lived in the
hot portion of the planet
for about six or seven years.
Eventually they said, why
can't we just live up there?
And they said, fine.
We'll build you a community.
And they did.
They built them a community
especially for our people.
>>REGINA: Now, were all
of these plants and trees
and such native to that planet?
>>KASTEN: Yeah, absolutely.
>>REGINA: It wasn't like
they brought those back
with body parts and
were creating something.
>>KASTEN: No, they
looked like fir trees.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>KASTEN: I put a photo in the
book of the Montana climate.
And they said that it looked
pretty much like that, yeah.
>>REGINA: And let's
talk a little bit
about some of the animals,
some of the animals
they encountered.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, they encountered
some strange looking animals.
One looked like a lion,
but it had a lot of fur
around it's face.
And there was something that
looked like an armadillo.
And that turned out to be
dangerous, the armadillo.
But they were instructed
not to try and kill them.
By the way, they had
brought guns with them--
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>KASTEN: --revolvers
and rifles both.
They were told not to.
>>REGINA: Don't kill any
of our species, yeah.
>>KASTEN: But they
wanted-- the Americans
did want some source of meat,
which they weren't getting.
>>REGINA: Because
they were vegetarian.
>>KASTEN: Yeah.
And the Ebens did not have
any concept of killing animals
to eat them at all.
So they encountered a creature
that looked like a snake.
But it had very unusual eyes.
And they did kill the snake.
They did kill it.
And they dissected the eyes.
And the eyes, they said,
we're almost like human eyes.
>>REGINA: Yes, that was
freaky reading about that.
Very interesting.
>>KASTEN: But they were allowed
to explore the entire planet.
>>REGINA: And so they were
allowed to eat the snake meat?
>>KASTEN: Yeah, in that
particular occasion.
But they told them
not to do it again.
They said, don't do it again.
We don't like you to do that.
Please, don't do it again.
>>REGINA: And so let's
talk a little bit
about the food supplies that
they did encounter there.
>>KASTEN: They grew food, as we
would call it, hydroponically
in a very artificial
environment, where they
had soil and they had water.
And I think, at that
time, I don't think we
had hydroponics on this planet.
I'm not sure that we did.
>>REGINA: In the '60s?
That would've been a bit early.
We did by the '70s.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, well maybe some
of that that came from them.
A lot of technology did
come from that trip.
And maybe we learned about
hydroponics from them.
They had to wear--
when they went
into the hydroponics
facility, the person in charge
told them not to come in because
they weren't wearing anything
on their head.
He got EBE-2 who
said that you have
to wear something on your head.
And she went and got
them hats to wear
while they went through
that particular facility.
So they grew the food that way.
>>REGINA: A lot of it
was, again, tasteless
to the Americans, although some
of the fruits, it sounded like,
were pretty decent and sweet.
>>KASTEN: Yes, exactly.
The fruit was the closest
thing that we could come with.
The rest of it, they said--
>>REGINA: Paper.
>>KASTEN: --tasted like paper.
>>REGINA: But again, they
said some of those foods,
those bland foods were
used in healing them
when they weren't
feeling well, when
they were nauseous and all.
>>KASTEN: They did
say that, yeah.
So the food's were nourishing.
And of course, the Ebens
could get all they wanted.
They didn't have
to buy anything.
There was no money.
>>REGINA: No money
in the culture.
I think a lot of
people would-- yeah.
>>KASTEN: No concept of money.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah, there you go.
That's a good one.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, right.
>>REGINA: Causes a
lot of suffering.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, exactly.
They had a central
facility where
the people, the Ebens could go
and take anything they wanted,
that they needed.
>>REGINA: And they did use,
they continued using the light
for healing purposes and such?
Light was really primary
to what they did.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, they did.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: Using frequencies.
>>KASTEN: We tried to
teach them our science.
They weren't terribly
interested in it.
They took a radio, a
radio telephone apart
to show them how it worked.
And they were surprised
that it was so
different from what they knew.
When they put them in their
quarters when they arrived,
they had light,
and they had power.
And our people were
able to plug anything
we had into their
boxes, and it worked.
It all worked.
We found out later
why that was the case.
Because what they called
the "crystal rectangle"
was taken back to
Earth and analyzed.
But anyway--
>>REGINA: What did we find out
from the crystal rectangle?
>>KASTEN: We found
out that there
was like a small, little bubble
of antimatter that reacted
to any demand put on it.
>>REGINA: How are
we using that now?
>>KASTEN: If it needed 50
volts, it got 50 volts.
If it needed 10 volts,
it got 10 volts.
>>REGINA: Perfect.
How are we using it?
Do we know?
I mean it's
obviously being used,
probably in some exotic
military technology.
>>KASTEN: If we have
that technology,
just think of all the things
it would revolutionize.
>>REGINA: Well, don't we?
>>KASTEN: We must.
We must have it.
>>REGINA: And so-- yeah, I
think that's the Holy Grail.
>>KASTEN: The Ebens shared
everything with us, freely.
They didn't keep anything back.
>>REGINA: So one
of the things they
talked about was this little
device they wore on their belt,
like a little television
monitor or something.
Let's talk about the structure
of the society a little bit.
The impression of
the crew seemed
to be that they were
very highly controlled.
There was very little free will.
That wasn't really
a notion there.
Can you talk about this?
>>KASTEN: When they landed,
there was a large tower.
I think they said it
was about 300 feet high.
And on the top of
it was something
that appeared to be a mirror.
And as the sun went
through different phases,
the shadow on the ground kept
changing, like a sundial.
And as it moved from one segment
of the circle to another,
all the Ebens would stop
doing what they were doing,
and they would start
doing something else.
So they were controlled
by the movements
from that device on the tower.
They're highly,
highly controlled
in every way, regimented.
Their lives were
totally regimented.
>>REGINA: And this was
something that kind
raised their curiosity
about the nature of that.
And the notion of
controlling a species
is certainly not something
that's specific to Earth,
that it seems to happen
throughout the universe
or universes.
>>KASTEN: It was
really a police state,
in every sense of the word.
Because in addition to
the tower and the mirror,
they also wore devices
on their belts.
At that time, we had
nothing like a smartphone.
But that's probably
what it was like.
And they were told what
to do through that--
>>REGINA: Through the device.
>>KASTEN: --smartphone.
Presumably, originating from
some central control facility.
But they had nothing
like television or radio
in their homes.
So that device was used
strictly to inform them
of what they needed to do,
that plus the mirror tower.
And the commander was told
that they had a tower like this
in every community.
>>REGINA: Did they
ever see any instances
of civil disobedience,
for example?
Or were the Ebens just
simply not inclined
to doing anything other
than what was told?
>>KASTEN: No rebelliousness
that they could detect.
>>REGINA: A passive society.
And how did they
spend their own time?
>>KASTEN: They did
have fun activities.
They did have feasts.
They had parties,
things like that.
They did get into that.
And they invited our people
to be part of those things.
And I have a chapter
on that in the book.
>>REGINA: And I understand
they would dance.
>>KASTEN: They danced.
They liked to dance.
They loved music.
>>REGINA: Any notion of what
that music sounded like?
Were they able to
reconstruct it?
>>KASTEN: Yes, the music
was very similar to what
we know as Tibetan chants.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>KASTEN: Chanting.
And I pointed out in the
book that the Americans
brought with them
tons of music tapes
to listen to when
they got there.
And some of those
were Tibetan chants.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, that
tells me that-- what?
That we knew all about their
music before they even left.
>>REGINA: Yeah, interesting.
When we were talking in
our last conversation,
the Tibetans were also aware
of the Reptilian societies,
is that correct?
>>KASTEN: The who were?
>>REGINA: Were the Tibetans?
Were we in Tibet
or where were we?
When we were talking about--
>>KASTEN: That was the
Reptillian connection.
The Ebens were not connected
with the reptilians.
>>REGINA: I know, but I'm
saying, there, in Tibet--
>>KASTEN: Oh yeah,
that's interesting.
>>REGINA: --they had
both connections.
>>KASTEN: That's right.
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, Tibet is
a very interesting place--
was before China took it over.
Very deep, interesting
stuff going on there.
>>REGINA: So the body,
themselves, I mean,
they took food in.
They were very
efficient in the way
they were able to utilize
their foods, it sounds like.
They didn't have a lot of waste
products, kind of like rat
droppings or something.
>>KASTEN: That's right.
What they said was they
eliminated very much
like a cat, cat droppings.
>>REGINA: And they
didn't urinate.
They happened to absorb.
>>KASTEN: Which Anonymous
found very amusing.
>>REGINA: Cat droppings and
they didn't really urinate.
Their body just
absorbed all the fluids
that they were taking in.
And they also had their own
kind of spiritual practices.
Was the chanting
that you were talking
about, kind of like
the Tibetan chanting,
similar to their
religious-- was that part
of a religious practice?
>>KASTEN: Yeah,
apparently it was.
But that was the kind
of music they preferred.
And we learned a lot about
their religious orientation.
Also, we found out
that they believed
in a creative force, which I
think they call something else.
And they believed in a
form of reincarnation.
And a lot of their
worship attitude
was very similar,
in a lot of ways
to the Catholic Church,
which the Vatican was
very delighted to hear about.
>>REGINA: Explain this.
>>KASTEN: Well, when they landed
in 2009, when they returned
in 2009, that was their
eighth visit to Earth,
we invited representatives
of the Vatican
to that landing as
well as representatives
from the People's Republic
of China and Russia.
And the Vatican presented
them with religious paintings.
And they also gave a
gift to the Vatican.
So it was that exchange.
And that may be what
triggered the Vatican
to their liberal policies.
>>REGINA: Open their arms, yes.
>>KASTEN: Open their policies
about, start talking about
extraterrestrials.
>>REGINA:
Extraterrestrial contact.
>>KASTEN: And why
couldn't extraterrestrials
exist under the Christian idea?
>>REGINA: Well, I
think the Vatican also
had possessions of other
artifacts, as I recall,
and paintings that featured
UFOs in the background.
And some of Danny
Sheehan's work.
>>KASTEN: That's right,
going back hundreds of years.
>>REGINA: So it's not
like they were unaware.
It's just that they
publicly embraced the notion
that we need to maybe
explore this relationship.
>>KASTEN: Exactly.
But they did believe
in reincarnation,
which the Vatican
does not, of course.
And they were very
reverent people.
And they did have occasions,
when somebody died,
they would have
elaborate funerals.
And then they would have
fun after that, just
like the Irish wakes.
>>REGINA: It was a
joyful event there.
>>KASTEN: Yeah, right.
Because apparently,
the attitude was, well,
that soul has been
released, and that's good.
>>REGINA: And so
they'll come back again.
>>KASTEN: They'll come
back again, exactly.
>>REGINA: Now, as we kind of
start, let's start moving.
Anything else about
their lifestyle there
that we haven't
covered that you think
people would be intrigued with?
>>KASTEN: They had a
strange kind of game
where they all stood like
chess pieces at various places
and then moved in
very strange ways.
>>REGINA: Right, I remember
reading about that.
>>KASTEN: And our people
never could figure out
what they were doing.
>>REGINA: OK, human
chess or Eben chess.
>>KASTEN: Right.
And we tried to teach them to
play football and baseball,
but they could not comprehend
the concept of not allowing
the ball to hit the ground.
They never could
figure that out,
why we put so much
emphasis on that.
So we did play games with them.
And they invited us to a feast.
And they had a good time, the
Americans had a very good time,
they said, at the feast.
>>REGINA: Did the
commander and Eben 2
become closer through the years?
>>KASTEN: They did.
And he really liked her a lot.
He said she was wonderful.
And she made the whole
thing work, really,
her translating capability.
Because they couldn't
communicate with the others.
There was one that
followed them around a lot
that they called the Einstein.
Because he wanted
to know everything
he could about our technology.
>>REGINA: And he
learned very rapidly?
>>KASTEN: He learned
very rapidly.
>>REGINA: They were
estimating, if you could put it
in human terms, the IQ
of that fellow, anyway,
some of the Ebens was over 300.
>>KASTEN: I don't know
if that particular Eben,
but we did estimate their
average IQ was about 160-- what
we would call 160-- which
is in our estimation, that's
a genius category.
>>REGINA: Yes, of course.
>>KASTEN: That's
even beyond Einstein.
>>REGINA: But it was
applied very differently
because even though the average
IQ may have been, say roughly
160, when they were
trying to interact
with the people around
them, the crew around them,
the ones they had
access to anyway,
they didn't understand
how certain rather
simple, mechanical things
or whatnot worked--
or electrical things.
But that's because they
weren't educated in that way.
They found out later,
there were others
that certainly had
all the understanding
necessary for our science.
It's just they were talking
to the milkman, so to speak.
>>KASTEN: Exactly.
And that led me to believe
that it was a police state.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
it was segmented.
>>KASTEN: And all
the high education
was kept in a particular--
among a particular clique, who
really ruled the roost.
Like when they found
out that doctor
could speak perfect
English, they
realized he was coming from
a different, let's just say,
economic strata.
They were the group
that made the rules
and sent the messages to
these little smartphones.
>>REGINA: What did they learn?
I mean let's start
kind of wrapping up
the experience for them.
Obviously, they learned a lot
about that culture but maybe
even about the cosmos and
Earthlings, ourselves.
What were some of
the biggest takeaways
that the crew left behind?
>>KASTEN: That the
crew left behind?
>>REGINA: I mean, not left
with them but left for us.
Because I don't know if any
of them are remaining now.
What did their collective?
>>KASTEN: When
they got back here?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KASTEN: They were
isolated and kept
in isolation for a full
year when they came back.
And they were debriefed
by the Air Force
Office of Special
Investigation as well as
the CIA and other people.
And the result of that
was a 3,000 page book.
And presumably, Anonymous
had access to that book.
And that's how all
of this came out.
Plus, they came
back with, I think
they said, around 3,000
photographs, probably movies as
well, soil samples, everything.
They brought back everything.
Everything kept
under lock and key
at Bolling Air Force
Base in Washington.
>>REGINA: What
struck you the most
out of the words of the
commander and the release
by Anonymous about all this?
What was the most
profound takeaway
for you, personally, when you
became involved in this story?
>>KASTEN: Well, you
know, I've always
believed that in such
a large universe,
there have to be very
diverse civilizations that we
can't even comprehend.
For instance, a lot
of the UFO occupants
are strange looking, like
the so-called mantis types.
>>REGINA: The mantis people.
>>KASTEN: And while they were
in one of the eating facilities,
one of those walked in.
And the commander was astounded.
And he asked EBE-2
about it, and she said,
he's just a visitor
from another planet.
And they were very
cosmopolitan about it.
What struck me was that
they had the same caring
and compassionate attitude
that we value here.
That probably beings
all over the universe
can feel as we do in
terms of spirituality.
And therefore, I
think we're going
to find a lot of very
receptive civilizations
out there as we start to
explore the galaxy, for sure.
Don't forget, they had
already explored the galaxy.
They had been all
over the galaxy.
So we have all that
information at our disposal
of what they learned.
I mean think about it.
It's amazing, amazing stuff
that we probably have learned,
and we're keeping under wraps.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's kind of
the crime of it all, I suppose.
Technologies that could
help liberate the species,
the entire human population
so greatly and having it
being, for whatever reason,
quarantined or maybe exploited
by a few.
>>KASTEN: Exactly.
And our explosion
in biotechnology
did happen shortly
after they got back.
So a lot of what we learned from
them has probably been applied.
Maybe we can already
clone humans.
>>REGINA: There seems to
be some evidence of that.
And let's go to Carl Sagan.
He had been briefed
about this, hadn't he?
And yet he kept such a straight
line on one hand and then,
on the other,
"Contact" comes out.
>>KASTEN: He had to.
He had to.
>>REGINA: So tell us
about his involvement,
what you feel about Carl Sagan.
>>KASTEN: He was brought in
because they couldn't figure
out the-- the movements of
the planet around their sun
did not seem to
equate to what we
know of as our rules of
planetary revolution.
They wanted Sagan's
viewpoint on that.
And he wrote a 60-page
brief on his view of it.
And that brief was included
in the final report,
which was created in 1980.
They came back in '78.
And they wrote up the final,
after a year of isolation,
after a year of creating
the 3,000 page book,
they created that final report.
And he signed it.
His signature is
on that as well.
So he was heavily
involved in that.
>>REGINA: And he came to
embrace a lot of what he--
>>KASTEN: But publicly, he never
acknowledged that we ever--
>>REGINA: Privately.
>>KASTEN: Right.
>>REGINA: Yeah, he never did.
Yet he did the film-- I mean,
he wrote the book, "Contact."
>>KASTEN: Yeah, that's right.
Yes.
And that was his
way of revealing
what he knew because that was
really a revelation, that book,
from an astronomy scientist.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>>KASTEN: But his
laboratory at Cornell
was getting a lot of
funding from NASA.
So he could not publicly
go into talking about UFOs
but privately-- And he
and Stanton Friedman
debated that issue.
And he said publicly
that probably we'd
never been visited.
>>REGINA: Well, isn't that
the beauty of fiction?
>>KASTEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: We can let all
our little secrets out.
>>KASTEN: That's right.
>>REGINA: And so
that's what's occurred,
"Close Encounters
of the Third Kind,"
many, many other Hollywood
films and then right
down to "Contact" with Sagan.
So right now, if
we-- I mean, I'm sure
people's curiosity has been more
than peaked in these last two
conversations.
Your book, I love it, "Secret
Journey to the Planet Serpo."
Aside from your book, are
there any other documents
we can go to now to get
the fullness of that story?
I know that 3,000
page document is not
going to be made available
to the public, is it?
>>KASTEN: Well, I'm
working now on a way
to try and get it through the
Freedom of Information Act.
I don't think I'll
be successful.
But I'm going to do my best.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
I'd be surprised,
but that would be great.
>>KASTEN: If they would even
release maybe 10 photos,
I'd be delighted,
just 10 out of 3,000.
The only photo we
have is the one
I have in the book of
the two suns in the sky.
That's legit, I'm pretty sure.
But god, just think about it.
>>REGINA: Ah, no kidding.
So you've done a beautiful job.
As I was showing you, my book
is dog-eared, top and bottom,
almost every page.
So I just want to thank you,
and Bill Ryan and everyone,
Anonymous, all for bringing
us to this place where
we could have access to
this knowledge, when we're
right on the precipice
of this leap toward being
beyond global, intergalactic
in our understanding of life
in the cosmos.
And just as an
epilogue, these guys
were supposedly paid
a good sum of money.
How many returned from Serpo?
>>KASTEN: Seven.
>>REGINA: And they were paid
a decent amount of money
so they could live a good life.
Their identities were gone.
But they experienced high
levels of radiation poisoning.
>>KASTEN: The last one
died in Florida in 2002.
Seven came back.
Three died.
One died on route to Serpo.
Two died on Serpo.
And two decided to remain there.
So seven returned.
>>REGINA: And they
couldn't understand.
They tried to analyze what this
radiation poisoning was about.
But as we said off
camera, different suns,
different sources of radiation
throughout the cosmos.
>>KASTEN: Different sun.
And each sun might have
its unique qualities,
its unique characteristics.
That would explain it.
>>REGINA: So any final thoughts?
We're out of time.
>>KASTEN: I think that the
Serpo story opens a door,
that if we could
truly admit to it,
it would be tremendous in terms
of opening the whole story.
Because it was put with
the DIA and not the CIA,
it's a hole into the
information that we
need to really get into.
And perhaps, this will
start it, hopefully.
>>REGINA: Well, I
wish you the best
of luck in your Freedom of
Information Act journey.
That should be fun.
>>KASTEN: I'll need it.
I'll need it.
I'm not optimistic.
>>REGINA: You might feel beaten
up by the end of that one.
But thank you for what
you've already done.
It was just absolutely
enthralling.
>>KASTEN: It's been fun.
I'm glad we did this.
>>REGINA: There's so
much more to this story.
You can find out about it
in the book, "Secret Journey
to Planet Serpo."
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]